---
title: phones
date: 2026-01-28
---

Phones cause unhapiness. 

I came to this realization recently. For a long time, I noticed that when I finished fencing I seemed much happier about myself. I was content. I attributed this phenomena to the endorphines released during fencing, however I believe I have overlooked another possibility: phones. Because one that fencing, and all great sports do, is create entire hours of zero screen time. There is no way to pick up a phone when doing burpees or hitting lunges, which leads to long periods of intense focus. 

I am not sure whether this is the entire reason for my happiness post-fencing, but I do believe this has potential. When I'm at home, it's almost irresistable to pick up my phone, scrolling instagram reels or checking my DMs. In fact, it's pretty much required. If I had to estimate, I probably hop on my phone every 5 minutes or so during a study session. That cannot be productive at all. I'm sure this is even worse considering the fact that I utilize my computer, which has been happily jailbroken, to scroll instgram reels even more. Yet, despite this addiction, I don't believe it leads to satisfcation at all.

Social media preys on insecurities. Seeing the amazing trips people go on. Watching stories of friends accomplishments. Our strongest emotions are elicited, and, often, these emotions are ones of short bursts of enjoyment. I've also noticed there seems to be an underlying blackpill content that has grown. I didn't realize what it was until recently, but I feel like it's pervaded my closest friend groups. Ideas like being masculine, mogging, all that stupid cheek bone shit, these seem to have had an influence on the underlying emotions of young men. However, anyone who talks to people would understand that this is prepsoterous. Nobody cares about this at all. The nihlism certain comments, influencers, and messages of blackpill is so dumb. It's insulting for both parties. It assumes men have to fit very specific roles and metrics. It also assumes women care about these metrics. But really, no one cares. Blackpill is one of many topics that cause anxiety and stupid ideas that social media is filled with.

But, why do dumb ideas gain popularity? I believe it has to do with *influencers*. These are the vendors of the marketplace. The people who sell the fruits of content creation. While we often think of Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok as the ones who drive content, in closer inspection, I realized they don't. TikTok, for example, serves as the supermarket. Each aisle section contains the specific subgenres/groups. While social media companies can kick out certain vendors, they don't make products. People make products. Those people are called content creators.

So, who are these content creators? Why do they create content in the first place? I think there is a subtle, but important point to be made. *Influencers* have an ego. To produce content, people must believe they have something worthwhile to say. Not only that, but this message should be worthwhile enough to grab peoples' attention. While food companies like Coca-Cola assume people want to buy their soda with money, content creators believe people will buy their message with *attention*. That's the name of the game. So, to be an influencer you need one thing: believe you have something worthwhile to say.

Okay so now the quesiton is what is worthwhile? Well, most people would have most common ideas down. Don't touch a hot stone, drink water, or remain clean, these are relatively native concepts. Even things like don't be a jerk or try hard in school, those are widespread. So the content creator has to be smart. They can't say something common or boring. No. Instead, they say the most outlandish shit in the world. Which brings me to my second point. Content creators don't have to be right. Ever noticed how social media always gives the most inflammatory responses. The Twitter post that says 20 racists things. The comments which make fun of people. As such, the goal isn't to be right. It's to be wrong. Not nessecarily say anything unfactual, but to say something that breaks convention. Because of this, influencers create radical content.

Last point I want to make. You don't need to listen to influencers. Literally, who are these people. They are random people in the world that you have no context for. Yet, they give a message that is skewed towards your certain beliefs in a slight way. But, genuinely, these are just people. Everyone is a person. Flawed. Biased. In some form or capacity. Manytimes we ignore people that we are close to, so why should we listen to this random person?

As a kid, I remember saying I would avoid at all costs social media. I set my own screentime limit on myself and gave the password to my mom: I would not be enslaved to my phone. But looking down right now, while school is cancelled due to a winter storm, my phone shows 8 hours of screen time. Kid me was probably smarter than me now.
